% TODO: Should be reviewed
\section{Conclusion}
\label{section:conclusion}

Peer-to-peer architecture has been in the center of research attention in the
last decade. Especially the decentralized unstructured genre exploits the
advantages of loose coupling and self organization of computing nodes to form
application-layer networks on top of the physical, best-effort infrastructure of
the Internet that exhibit interesting properties. Scalability problems arouse
quickly, though, because of the inefficient construction of this overlay that
was built with no concern for the underlying physical network that causes a
great deal of redundant traffic. The problem was identified by the research
community as the topology mismatch problem between the overlay and the
corresponding underlying physical network and a great deal of effort has been
set towards alleviating it. Some fruits of this effort have been gathered and
presented in this survey. Measurement of link cost through latency or RTT and
deletion of inefficient established connections are the key concepts of almost
all approaches. Others, manage to address the problem through hierarchical peer
clustering (e.g. best IP matching). Additionally, some protocols focus on
specific problems that furtherly arise, such as overlay partitioning, search
scope reduction or convergence speed, to name just a few. Another desire is to
form a protocol that could be applied to both decentralized unstructured and
decentralized structured networks. Unfortunately no approach has equally
addressed these problems in order to form a robust solution. So the field seems
to be, still, fertile for any, new, clever idea.